README.md, before:

# TradesMin
An app commissioned for an Electrical Engineering Company based between France and Switzerland.

I origionally intended to have an Object-orientated programming approach, but I had to switch early on due to lack of practice in linking the Front-end to the Back-end. After reading about it, I've gone with a functional approach, whcih is to say the software is structured in a series of linear functions determined by the function calls.

Every decision tha I make, I always try to zoom out and consider the architecture and design of what I'm building. so, although I made a switch this time - I've still had plenty of eureka moments! 

Nick


### ...Follow on articles that can be written from this work:
- passing state through <Link> tags using ```useLocation() + location.state```
    - From useFetch > ProjectList > ProjectDetails
- Using ```authProvider``` to pass state through the app and wrap components and Routes with it. 
    - Valid webtokens are provided by Supabase object returned when a valid login crediential is provided 
- Designing a backend interaction with a database using serverless functions
    - Great way to save time and money while using a database provided by a third party
- Using dummy data files for Development
    - using JSON server to write the data and test GET POST requests etc...
- 



Font style - Blanka + Ballaboo

Commit message:

working version of the app using a single table for the database

README.md, after:

# TradesMin 
Version 1 - built with working single table in database ✅
An app commissioned for an Electrical Engineering Company based between France and Switzerland.

I origionally intended to have an Object-orientated programming approach, but I had to switch early on due to lack of practice in linking the Front-end to the Back-end. After reading about it, I've gone with a functional approach, whcih is to say the software is structured in a series of linear functions determined by the function calls.

Every decision tha I make, I always try to zoom out and consider the architecture and design of what I'm building. so, although I made a switch this time - I've still had plenty of eureka moments! 

Nick


### ...Follow on articles that can be written from this work:
- passing state through <Link> tags using ```useLocation() + location.state```
    - From useFetch > ProjectList > ProjectDetails
- Using ```authProvider``` to pass state through the app and wrap components and Routes with it. 
    - Valid webtokens are provided by Supabase object returned when a valid login crediential is provided 
- Designing a backend interaction with a database using serverless functions
    - Great way to save time and money while using a database provided by a third party
- Using dummy data files for Development
    - using JSON server to write the data and test GET POST requests etc...
- 



Font style - Blanka + Ballaboo
